---
layout: post
title: "SWALCO"
categories: portfolio
image: swalco.jpg
weburl: http://www.swalco.org/
---

_This is a backdated post._

I started working at the county in late January.  My first big project came from the [Solid Waste Agency of Lake County (SWALCO)](http://www.swalco.org/). I was still unfamiliar with Sharepoint at this time, though I was quickly learning.  This ended up being a perfect starting point.

<abbr title="Solid Waste Agency of Lake County">SWALCO</abbr> got a minor facelift and most of the work went into reorganizing and rewriting pages.

##The Process

Designing sites at the county is an exercise in restrictions.  I am unable to change major parts of the layout, including top navigation, background, search bars, etc.  So instead, I make what I can awesome.

I listed every single page available on their website and reordered them into meaningful categories.  Once this was approved by the entire group, I set about on the monumental task of moving pages and publications around.  I did everything manually because I lacked some permissions in Sharepoint that would have allowed me to move things without breaking links.  This did ultimately work out to my benefit because then I could recode everything semantically as I worked, even if it did take longer.

###The Front Page

<abbr title="Solid Waste Agency of Lake County">SWALCO</abbr> wanted something a little more fun and colorful than the other county departments, so I obliged.  I gave their most popular categories large, rainbow-colored buttons and gave their major initiative (Recycle First Trash Last) top billing.

The content editors at <abbr title="Solid Waste Agency of Lake County">SWALCO</abbr> are constantly updating the news section with new publications and new events.  The old layout required users to scroll past several screens to see the news.  By putting the news next to the introduction, users see everything much more easily.

###Subsections

Because each member of <abbr title="Solid Waste Agency of Lake County">SWALCO</abbr> was essentially in charge of a specific function of their department, everyone had a presence on the website.  If you look really hard, you can see different personalities in each page, even though everything is still very consistent.

##Final Thoughts

Looking at it a couple months on, there are a lot of things I would do differently.  But for someone who had never touched Sharepoint before in their life, I think it was a fine effort.  And <abbr title="Solid Waste Agency of Lake County">SWALCO</abbr> still loves their page, which is really the most important thing.